On Isla Nublar, an InGen employee is attacked and killed by a Velociraptor, possibly a pack leader known as the Big One, while attempting to transport it to a heavily fortified enclosure. This prompts the worker's family to file a lawsuit against the company, and it successfully scares InGen's investors into thinking that the park is unsafe. The CEO of InGen, John Hammond, decides to reassure the investors by bringing a group of experts to his park in order to gain their approval of it. Among the group he invites is paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant and paleobotanist Dr. Ellie Sattler, two scientists whose digs he's been funding, Dr. Ian Malcolm, a mathematician (or "chaotician" as he calls himself), and his investor's lawyer, Donald Gennaro. Meanwhile, at Costa Rica, Dennis Nedry is meeting with Dr. Lewis Dodgson, a rival scientist of InGen working for Biosyn. Dennis is a computer programmer working for John on Isla Nublar and has recently become dissatisfied with his treatment by InGen. Dennis agrees to steal dinosaur embryos for Dodgson for a total of $1.5 Million.

0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
Inside the Jurassic Park helicopter.

The group, assembled by John, arrive on the island via helicopter and then take two 1992 Wrangler Sahara jeeps out into the park, where they come across a Brachiosaurus and a whole herd of Parasaurolophus, to their utter amazement. John then takes his assembled team to the Visitor Center, and learn that InGen were able to recreate dinosaurs using DNA taken from mosquitoes, who had feasted on dinosaur blood and had been preserved in amber. The DNA taken from the mosquitoes were spliced with DNA from frogs to fill in the gaps of the genetic code. InGen scientists only cloned female dinosaurs, thus eliminating the threat of uncontrolled breeding of the animals. Afterwards, the crew enter the laboratory, headed by Dr. Henry Wu, and witness the birth of an infant Velociraptor.

00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
John Hammond and an infant Velociraptor.

At Alan's request, the crew are then taken to the Velociraptor enclosure, where they meet park warden Robert Muldoon. Robert tells the group about how vicious and intelligent the raptors are. He explains that there are only three raptors altogether because the Big One, who has taken over as the alpha female, had "killed all but two of the others", of the total eight raptors. Meanwhile, the scientists lower a cow attached to a harness into a dinosaur's enclosure and observe the Velociraptor slaying the cow, destroying the support cables and tearing the harness in the process. After the experiment, the crew head indoors for a lunch break.

During the lunch break, Alan, Ian, and Ellie start to express concerns about the park after the initial shock and wonder has subsided. Ian questions the ethical morality in cloning species that had not lived for millions of years. Ellie expresses concerns that the scientists may not be thinking of the repercussions that might occur of what they are cloning. Alan remains fairly neutral on the issue though he advises John to be careful. Donald is the only one who completely approves, thanks to the amounts of money they could make off the island. Hammond puts it eloquently, "I don't believe it. You're meant to come down here and defend me against these two characters and the only one I have on my side is the blood-sucking lawyer!"

Dilophosaurus pen
Dilophosaurus fence

After lunch, John's two grandchildren, Lex and Tim Murphy, arrive. John's grandchildren join forces with the crew, and they take a tour through the park in electric Tour Vehicles, consisting of two 1992 Ford Explorer XLTs. Both of them instantly take a liking to Alan, who doesn't appreciate the attention, as he does not garner much interest in children. The tour group visits the Dilophosaurus enclosure first, but to their disappointment, none appear. Next, they head towards the Tyrannosaurus pen where a goat is released into the pen, but the Tyrannosaurus still does not emerge from the forest. Finally, the crew find a sick Triceratops, with veterinarian Dr. Gerry Harding examining it. Ellie decides to stay behind with Gerry, while the rest of the crew head back to the Ford Explorers and go on their way back to the Visitor Center.

DVDPlay 2009-05-23 15-25-32-03
T. rex attacks a car

A tropical cyclone storm hits the island, and most InGen employees leave, except for John, Robert, and chief systems engineer Ray Arnold. During the cyclone, Dennis begins his plan and shuts down the entire park security (except for the raptor fences). As a result, the Tyrannosaurus breaks through the deactivated electric fence surrounding its pen, devours the stranded goat, and wreaks havoc upon the roadway, attacking Tim and Lex hiding in the car, who was left alone by Donald after he fled. Alan ignites a flare to lure the T. rex away from the kids, but Ian inadvertently intervenes, only for himself to be chased to a restroom, where Donald is hiding. The T. rex brings down the hut, breaking Ian's leg, and devours Donald in the process. Lex and Alan battle the T. rex, while the broken Explorer manned by Tim is pushed over the edge of the enclosure and plunges into a tree below.

Nedry death
Nedry's death.

Once Alan and Lex manage to get to the bottom of the enclosure, Alan must climb up the tree that holds the wrecked Explorer with Tim inside. He successfully rescues Tim; however, they have to escape from the Explorer when it begins falling down the tree. Just after they flee the wreckage, Ellie and Robert arrive at the scene. At first, they believe the only survivor of the chaos is Ian, but upon further investigation, they find two sets of footprints: one is Alan's and one belongs to one of the kids. Just then, the Tyrannosaurus returns, and Ian, Robert, and Ellie barely manage to escape in their Jeep.

Meanwhile, Dennis crashes his Jeep into an embankment, and while trying to winch it, he encounters a juvenile Dilophosaurus, who spits out a tar-like venom at Dennis’s eyes, causing him extreme pain before the saboteur manages to get back in his Jeep. When Nedry thinks he's safe, he turns his head and the Dilophosaurus managed to get into the car with him and continues to attack him, and eventually kills him. The modified canister, used to smuggle the embryos, is lost in the process.

Alan, Tim, and Lex spend the night in a tree. While hiking to safety the next morning, they discover hatched eggs, which means that the dinosaurs are actually breeding. Alan hypothesizes that the frog DNA is responsible as some species of frog are known to spontaneously change sex in a single-sex environment.

DVDPlay 2009-05-06 16-54-20-72
Muldoon's death

Ray tries to hack Dennis' computer to turn the power back on but fails, so he does a full system reset, which requires the circuit breakers to be manually reset from the utility shed. When he does not return, Ellie and Robert follow and discover that the raptors have escaped; the shutdown cut off the power to the remaining electricity fences around their pit. Robert realizes that the raptors are near and tells Ellie to go to the utility shed herself, so she can turn the power back on, while Robert tries to hunt the raptor. Ellie manages to turn back on the power, but Tim loses consciousness after getting electrocuted while climbing the perimeter fence to get to the other side. Ellie runs from a raptor that was hiding in the maintenance shed after discovering Ray's severed arm and after escaping, Ellie meets Alan, and they both go back to Ian and John in the emergency bunker.

Meanwhile, the Raptors set a trap for Muldoon in a way exactly as Grant had described at the beginning of the film; One raptor is rustling in the bushes directly in front of Muldoon, and right before he can shoot the raptor, the Big One emerges from the brush right next to Muldoon. Muldoon utters the famous words "clever girl" before the Big One leaps onto him and devoured him. Lex and Tim also narrowly escape the Big One and her fellow raptors in the kitchen. After outsmarting the Raptors (Tim locking one in the freezer and Lex knocking the Big One out for several minutes), Alan, Ellie, Lex and Tim all head to the computer room to try and reboot the system. Alan and Ellie hold off the Big One trying to open the door to the computer room until the power is restored, and the electromagnetic locks begin working. Lex is finally able to restore the Park's computer systems in order to call John to request a helicopter rescue of the survivors.

DVDPlay 2009-05-23 16-48-45-52
Rexy kills The Big One.

With the door secured, the raptor breaks into the room through the window after Grant shoots at it through the glass. The group climbs up into the ceiling crawlspace and arrive at the Visitor Center skeleton display, only after Lex is attacked by the Big One leaping up at her. The raptors pursue, and after a scuffle with the Big One on top of the fossil exhibits and the raptors block their escape route, help comes from an unlikely source when the Tyrannosaurus suddenly appears and kills both raptors (saving Alan, Ellie, Lex, and Tim in the process). (She --the T. rex-- prevents anybody else in the group from being killed by the raptors.) The four then climb into John and Ian's jeep, then head for the landing strip. Alan decides not to endorse the park, a choice with which John concurs. As all fly away in the helicopter, the children fall asleep beside Alan, who contemplatively watches a flock of pelicans flying nearby, the surviving relatives of the dinosaurs they escaped.

