Spaceballs Movie Plot

In a galaxy very, very, very, very far away, the ruthless Spaceballs, led by President Skroob, have squandered their planet's atmosphere. Desperate for oxygen, Skroob hatches a plan to steal it from the neighboring planet Druidia by obtaining the code to its air shield, destroying Druidia in the process.

On Druidia, the spoiled Princess Vespa flees an arranged marriage to the narcoleptic Prince Valium, having already rejected all other suitors in her search for true love. Meanwhile, mercenary Lone Starr and his half-man, half-dog companion Barf are contacted by crime boss Pizza the Hutt, who demands repayment of a one-million space buck debt. King Roland of Druidia offers Starr the same amount to rescue Vespa and her droid servant, Dot Matrix.

Aboard their Winnebago spaceship Eagle 5, Starr and Barf rescue the pair just before they are captured by the Spaceball ship Spaceball One, commanded by Colonel Sandurz and Skroob's enforcer, Dark Helmet, who wields the mystical power of the Schwartz. However, Eagle 5 runs out of fuel, forcing Starr to crash-land on the desert moon of Vega.

The four wander through the scorching landscape, with Starr and Vespa exchanging barbed remarks and mutual attraction. They cannot act on their feelings, however, as Vespa is duty-bound to marry a prince. They collapse from heat exhaustion and dehydration, but are rescued by the Dink-Dinks, a group of robed, diminutive aliens, and taken to the hidden temple of Yogurt, a wise sage who breaks the fourth wall to shamelessly advertise Spaceballs merchandise. Yogurt guides Starr in using the Schwartz, using a ring to channel its power. He also deciphers Starr's medallion—found with him as an abandoned baby—but withholds its meaning.

Unable to locate Vespa, Helmet and Sandurz watch a VHS copy of Spaceballs and skip forwards in the film to find her. On the moon, Helmet uses the Schwartz to impersonate King Roland, tricking Vespa into revealing herself. She and Dot are captured and taken to Spaceball One; Starr and Barf give chase.

Helmet extorts the shield code from Roland by threatening to reverse Vespa's plastic surgery and restore her large nose. Starr and Barf infiltrate Spaceball One, rescue the captives (leaving stunt doubles behind as a distraction), and escape in Eagle 5. With the shield code in hand, Spaceball One transforms into "Mega-Maid", a giant robot maid, and begins vacuuming Druidia's atmosphere.

Using the Schwartz, Starr reverses the vacuum from "suck" to "blow", saving the planet. He pilots Eagle 5 into Mega-Maid's head, finds the self-destruct button, and battles Helmet in a Schwartz duel using ring-projected lightsaber-like beams. Helmet steals Starr's ring and drops it down a grate, but he hears a telepathic message from Yogurt telling him: "The Schwartz is in you." Starr wields the Schwartz to reflect Helmet's energy blast with a mirror, sending him flying into the self-destruct button. As Eagle 5 escapes, Mega-Maid explodes. Skroob, Helmet, and Sandurz are left behind when all the escape pods are taken. They crash-land in the remains of Mega-Maid on a nearby planet populated by intelligent apes, who are horrified to witness their arrival.

On Druidia, Starr and Barf learn that Pizza the Hutt locked himself in a limo and ate himself to death, clearing their debt. They return Vespa to her father but decline payment for rescuing her. Starr leaves, reluctantly accepting that Vespa must marry a prince.

In space, Starr and Barf discover a final message from Yogurt hidden in a fortune cookie: the medallion proves Starr is a prince. They return to Druidia just in time to stop Vespa's wedding to Valium. Starr reveals his royal lineage and he and Vespa are joyously married.
