
Page

/
47

Page 1 of 47Scripts.com What About Bob? By Tom Schulman Page 1/47 Page 1 of 47
Page 2 of 47I feel good, I feel great, I feel wonderful I feel good, I feel great, I feel wonderful I feel good, I feel great, I feel wonderful I feel good, I feel great, I feel wonderful Good Morning Gil. I said... Good Morning Gil. I gotta go to work See Ya. Wish Me Luck, Gil. Doctor, it's your wife on the phone Thank you Claire. Fay, are we sitting down? My publisher thinks it's gonna happen. Ya, he thinks Good Morning America is coming up to Lake Winnipesaukee next week to interview me. It's a tremendous shot in the arm for my book. Ye... No! It's very unusual.. Well, I think they did visit doctor Ruth's house once but, other than that... Hold on a second honey. Yes. Excuse me doctor, but there is a Dr. Carswell Fensterwald on the phone. Thank You. Fay, I have to go, just another colleague on the phone. Boy they sure do come out of the wood work when you're famous. Good bye dear. Carswell! Leo! Long time no see, huh? You've got a big book out! Things are really clickin', huh? That's the way I planned it! Listen Leo, I'm quitting my practice for a while, I'm leaving town. And I have one patient I'd like to refer to you. Exactly what kind of case is it Page 2/47 Page 2 of 47
Page 3 of 47Carswell? He's not psychotic is he? No! No... nothing like that! Listen, his name is Bob Wiley He pays early, he comes on time. He just needs someone brilliant, Leo. I know you don't like flattery but, If there's anyone I know who could win the Nobel Prize, it's you. Well... I suppose I could find an hour for him sometime after Labor Day. Okay! I'll work him in for an interview. Say Carswell, how come you're quitting the business? We're a dying breed Leo, Good Luck! Free! Claire, if a Bob Wiley calls, schedule him for a short interview right after I get back from my vacation. He's already called Dr Marvin, twice, he's your next appointment. That's persistence. I feel good, I feel great, I feel wonderful I feel good, I feel great, I feel wonderful I feel good, I feel great, I feel wonderful I feel good. Can I Help you Sir? Yes, Dr Marvin, Dr Leo Marvin? Second Elevator, 44th Floor. Thank You. Elevator? Bob... Wiley... Why don't you sit down, it'll be a few minutes. Dr Marvin, Bob Wiley. Thank You. - Thank you for working me in. - Hello. Should I call you Dr Marvin or Leo? Which ever you like. Call me Bob. Is that your family? Yes. Oh wait, let me guess, I'm very good at this. That's Harriet... Page 3/47 Page 3 of 47
Page 4 of 47and then Ronny, Gretchen, and Rita. Ah wait, wait a second, Cecilia, Dorothy, and this is Kenneth? and Bamby. This is my son Sigmund, and my wife Fay, and my daughter, Anna, and that's my sister, Lily. Lily? I was close. It's a beautiful family. Thank you. Have a seat. Why don't I start? The simplest way to put it, I have problems. I worry about diseases, so, I have trouble touching things. In public places it's almost impossible. I have a real big problem moving. Talk about moving. As long as I'm in my apartment, I'm OK. But when I go out, I get... weird! Talk about weird. Talk about weird. Well, I get dizzy spells, nausea... cold sweats, hot sweats, fever blisters, difficulty breathing, difficulty swallowing, blurred vision, involuntary trembling, dead hands, numb lips, fingernail sensitivity, pelvis discomfort. So the real question is, what is the crisis, Bob? What is that you're truly afraid of? What if my heart stops beating? What if... I'm looking for Page 4/47 Page 4 of 47
Page 5 of 47a bathroom, I can't find it... and... my bladder explodes... Do you ever heard of turrets syndrome? Involuntary shouting profanity? It's exceptionably rare... Shit eating son of a bitch! Bastard dooshbag, twat, numbnuts, dickhead, bitch! Why, exactly, are you doing this? If I fake it, then I don't have it! You know it's the same with the cardiac arrest. Are you married? I'm divorced. Would you like to talk about that? There are two types of people in this world. Those who like Neil Diamond... and those who don't. My ex-wife loves him. I see. So, what you're saying is that even though you are an almost paralyzed, multi-phobic personality that is in a constant state of panic, your wife did not leave you, you left her because she liked Neil Diamond. Now, you're saying that maybe, maybe I didn't leave her because she likes Neil Diamond, but maybe, she left me? Yes. Ow, ow, ow, ow, ow! Dr Marvin, You can help me. For the first time in my life, I feel like there's hope. I feel like I can be somebody. Bob, there's an old saying, that's the best psychiatrist in the world, is the one right inside of you. Yeah... I can help you, yes. Page 5/47 Page 5 of 47
Page 6 of 47Thank you. Bob, there is a ground-breaking new book, that has just come out. Now, not everything in this book, of course, applies to you, but, I'm sure that you can see when you see the title, exactly how it could help. Baby Steps? It means setting small reasonable goals for yourself one day at a time. One tiny step at a time. Baby steps. For instance, um... when you leave this office, don't think about everything you have to do in order to get out of the building, just think to what you must do to get out of this room, and when you get to the hall, deal with that hall, and so forth... you see? Baby steps! Baby steps. Oh boy! Baby steps, baby steps, baby steps through the office, baby steps out the door, it works! it works! All I have to do... is take... one little step at a time, and I can do anything! Baby step throughout the office, Baby step throughout the office. That should give you a lot to digest while I'm on vacation... v..vacation? Oh, certainly my secretary told you? As this afternoon I'm taking my family on vacation Page 6/47 Page 6 of 47

Page 3 of 47
